for items, uh, four types, but actually, um, complex data types, there are way more than that. There's an infinite number, because you can actually create your own data.
data structures in Python.
Um, by creating... by creating classes and... but we're gonna... we're gonna learn all of that later on in the second part of this... of this course.
For now, let's learn about these four...
um, data structure types.
List, tuple, dictionary, and set.
List is what we call an array of values.
Okay, so in this case, for example, if it sets, um, cities as, um, this...
with these three values.
So, um, what's gonna happen here is that
the CDs variable is gonna have 3 strings.
Chicago, New York City, and Washington.
And we can also append new values,
Um, add new values into it.
And also to remove
existing values from the list.
So, if we copy a code, and...
Here...
What do you think the cities is gonna be like-
Um, there's gonna be...
three values, and it's gonna replace New York City with Los Angeles, as you can see here.
Tuple is just like list.
But the only difference is that it's immutable. Immutable here means, like, you cannot
Um, change the values.
So, whereas in CDs, you can append and remove with tuple, you can't do that. And maybe you're asking,
Uh, why do we even need tuple, then- I can just...
store all of my variables in Listen, because, like, tuple seems...
less powerful than LIST, right-
But, uh, the answer is that tuple... one of the answers is really
Tuple requires...
less memory than, uh, than list.
Although it's really insignificant. You can, of course,
use, uh, use lists for all of your...
array needs.
Um, and it's not gonna cost you that much.
difference in performance.
But the better practice here is...
Um, to use tuple when you know for sure that, um,
that your array is not gonna be...
is not going to be changing in your code.
Okay, and also, personally, I think another...
an AVER...
an even greater value out of using Topol is that
it makes your code more readable.
Like, by reading this, you know for sure that this is not gonna be...
Uh, not gonna be changed, and not gonna be able to be changed later on in the code, right- Whereas if you store it with lists,
Um, you don't know for sure, okay- Other part of the code may change it, and it makes the code a bit
less readable for me.
Dictionary, um...
it allows you to use...
Um, any values as an index of your...
of your... of your array.
So, if you really think about it, um, with
with list, or tuple-
For example, let's just use the list we created earlier.
We can access...
Um, any of the values by using
By using this number.
So, if you really think about it, the numbers here...
are the... are the indexes, right-
But, um, what if we want to...
store, um...
what if we want to use, like, other than numbers as a...
as the index. Well, we can use dictionary for that.
So, in this case...
Your data... this...
Um...
You can...
use...
Um, this, for example.
to get the second value.
New York City... New York City CSV.
So, um, how it's, uh... notice how it's, uh, how it's written.
So it starts with the indexes.
And then, um, the colon...
Uh, the column character.
And then followed by the values.
Right-
And the other, uh, the other one is, um, sets.
is, uh, it's basically similar to Tuple.
But, um...
it's gonna remove the...
the duplicate values.
Well, actually, it's... it's more like... it's more similar to... to list, in the sense that
Um, it's mutable, so you can...
You can add into... into sets.
Just as you can add into the list.
But the only difference is that the values are unique.
So, in this case, if you add...
Actually, I'm just gonna show you here.
If you add, um...
Thursday twice, for example.
It's not gonna show. The value Thursday is still gonna show once.
Okay- Because it attacks...
uniqueness in the... in the valleys.